# Stock-Market-Prediction-Using-Machine-Learning

The stock market, which is a complex and dynamic arena, is influ￾enced by numerous variables from macroeconomic signals and business performance, investor sentiment and geopolitics. Forecasting stock prices accurately is an intimidating task as a result of the inherent volatility and non-linear dynamics in financial time-series data. Traditional statistical techniques typically lose out on such complexities and thus require sophis￾ticated computational methods. The challenge is overcome in this project by extending machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL) techniques for
predicting stock prices for day-by-day trading as well as long-term invest￾ment policy based on historic records of 10 high-market-capitalization firms
retrieved from Investing.com. The primary objective is to develop a robust, data-driven model that integrates time-series analysis, technical indicators, and ensemble learning with the objective of predicting future closing prices. The project is imple￾mented in a two-step manner: Deep Learning: A stacked Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) network is utilized to learn temporal relationships in sequence of price data.
Traditional Machine Learning: Linear Regression, Decision Tree, Ran￾dom Forest, and XGBoost models are utilized for sequence-based forecasting
for comparison with LSTM. In the context of the datasets, the 10 companies’ stock prices have been utilized for this research work. Volatile stock firms have been selected to train the models more efficiently and accurately with the ability to predict stock prices. The companies shortlisted are: AXIS Bank, Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Hindustan Unilever, TCS, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Finance, Infosys, and SBI ETF. The stock information covers a period of 10 years — from January 2015 to April 2025, and was obtained from Investing.com and the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE). We selected this companies top 10 compines according to their Market Capital
